---
title: Turkey and Syria Earthquake Response February 2023 Response
date: 2023-02-06 22:15:00 Z
Glide: EQ-2023-000015-TUR
Event Name: M 7.8 in Türkiye on 06 Feb 2023
Country:
- Turkey
- Syria
Event type: EQ Earthquake
Summary Text: This is in activation led by Yer Çizenler for the earthquake in Central
  Türkiye and northern Syria.
Feature Image: EQ Earthquake
Post-type: timeline
Campaign: Türkiye Earthquakes February 2023
Tracking: türkiyeeq060223
Report: available
---

<h2>Context</h2>

"A strong earthquake of 7.8 M (7.4 as reported by Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency - AFAD) at a depth of 18 km occurred on 6 February at 1.17 UTC (4.17 local time) in southern Türkiye, close to the border with northern Syria. The epicentre was located in Atalar town (Gaziantep Province, Southeastern Anatolia Region), and about 45 km north of the northern border of Aleppo Governorate in Syria." ECHO

<a href="https://www.gdacs.org/report.aspx?eventtype=EQ&eventid=1357372" target="_blank">GDACS</a>

<h2>Size-up Context</h2>

Context: "Close to 2,000 deaths have been reported in Türkiye and north-west Syria on 6 February as a 7.7 magnitude earthquake struck southern Türkiye at 4:17 am. This is Türkiye's most powerful earthquake recorded since 1939. At least 78 aftershocks have been reported followed by a second earthquake of 7.5 magnitude at 13:24 with the epicenter in Ekinozu/Kahramanmaras province. Tremors were reportedly felt in Gaziantep and neighboring provinces. The Government of Türkiye has since issued a Level 4 alarm, calling for international assistance. The earthquake also heavily impacted north-west Syria, a region where 4.1 million people depend on humanitarian assistance today. The majority are women and children. At this time, Syrian communities are simultaneously hit with an on-going cholera outbreak and harsh winter events including heavy rain and snow over the weekend. The humanitarian response is largely overstretched with a funding gap of 48 per cent identified for the last quarter of 2022 (US$371.1 is required out of 802.1 million). The UN and partners are monitoring the situation on the ground amidst information flow constraints due to chronic telecommunication disruptions and power shortages. Infrastructural damages are difficult to assess at this time and roads have been reportedly blocked in both Türkiye and north-west Syria. (OCHA, 6 Feb 2023)" 
Source:<a href=" https://reliefweb.int/disaster/eq-2023-000015-tur">ReliefWeb, 7th of Feb, 2023</a> - 


<h2>Size-up Details</h2>

<strong>Event Name:</strong>Türkiye Earthquakes February 2023<br>
<strong>GDACS Alert Lvl:</strong>Red (3.0)<br>
<strong>Location:</strong>  Central Türkiye<br>
<strong>Geographic Scope:</strong> Significant Portion of the Country<br>
<strong>Estimated Humanitarian Impact:</strong> Thousands of fatalities and injured <br>
<strong>Estimated Duration:</strong> Weeks to Months<br>
<strong>Event Scope:</strong> Major<br>
<strong>Local Contacts:</strong> Yer Çizenler<br>
<strong>Anticipated Needs:</strong>The larger population centers near epicenter are fairly well mapped but there are plenty of areas that could use basemap improvements in the impacted area.<br>
<strong>Request(s):</strong> ✓
There are no requests from partners currently<br>
<strong>Need for Activation:</strong> Likely<br>
<strong>Active Orgs:</strong> HOT, Yer Çizenler<br>
<strong>Lead Orgs:</strong> Yer Çizenler<be>

<h2>Response Details</h2>

Context: "On 6 February 2023, a powerful earthquake struck southern Turkey west of the city of Gaziantep at 04:17 AM TRT (01:17 UTC), causing widespread damage in Turkey and Syria. With a maximum Mercalli intensity of IX (Violent) and a magnitude of 7.8 Mww, it is tied with the 1939 Erzincan earthquake as the strongest earthquake to hit Turkey in recorded history. The earthquake was followed by numerous aftershocks, the strongest of which had a magnitude of 7.5 Mw. More than 1,300 people were killed and more than 6,300 were injured." 

Here is the list of projects waiting for your response:

<a href="https://tasks.hotosm.org/projects/14218">14218, M7.8 EARTHQUAKE TÜRKIYE - PART 1</a>

<a href="https://tasks.hotosm.org/projects/14219">14219, M7.8 EARTHQUAKE TÜRKIYE - PART 2</a>

<a href="https://tasks.hotosm.org/projects/14220">14220, M7.8 EARTHQUAKE TÜRKIYE - PART 3</a>

<a href="https://tasks.hotosm.org/projects/14221">14221, M7.8 EARTHQUAKE TÜRKIYE - PART 4</a>

<a href="https://tasks.hotosm.org/projects/14225">14225, M7.8 EARTHQUAKE TÜRKIYE - PART 5</a>