---
title: 'Pakistan: Floods, Monsoon Season 2022 Response'
date: 2022-08-30 07:46:00 Z
Glide: FL-2022-000254-PAK
Event Name: 'Pakistan: Floods, Monsoon Season 2022'
Country:
- Pakistan
Event type: Fl Flood
Summary Text: This is in activation by the Asia Pacific Open Mapping Hub to support
  disaster response to the Floodings in Pakistan.
Feature Image: Fl Flood
Post-type: timeline
Campaign: 'Pakistan: Floods, Monsoon Season 2022'
Tracking: hotosm-project-13404
Report: available
---

<h2>Context</h2>

"NDMA also reported that in a period from 14 June to 03 July, at least 38 people have lost their lives and 59 have been injured across the country as a result of severe weather from the monsoon of this year. Furthermore 110 houses have been destroyed and 231 severely damaged."

<a href="https://glidenumber.net/glide/public/search/details.jsp?glide=22617&record=45&last=7615" target="_blank">GLIDE</a>

<h2>Size-up Context</h2>

<strong>Context:</strong>"The floods caused by the monsoon rains since mid-June 2022 has affected Balochistan, Sindh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Punjab, Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) provinces of Pakistan. According to the official figures (NDMA, SIT-REP No.076) the massive floods have so far claimed 1,061 lives and injured 1,575 people. The estimated number of affected people is around 30 million, and around 1 million houses are totally or partially damaged leaving behind millions in need of urgent shelter."
<br>Source: Pakistan Red CrescentTurkish Red Crescent<be>  

<h2>Size-up Details</h2>

<strong>Event Name:</strong>Pakistan: Floods, Monsoon Season 2022<br>
<strong>GDACS Alert Lvl:</strong>Red (2.5)<br>
<strong>Location:</strong>Balochistan, Sindh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Punjab, Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa<br>
<strong>Geographic Scope:</strong> Country<br>
<strong>Estimated Humanitarian Impact:</strong> death: 1061, displaced: 215 997, injured: 1575 <br>
<strong>Estimated Duration:</strong> Months<br>
<strong>Event Scope:</strong> Major<br>
<strong>Local Contacts:</strong> OSM Pakistan<br>
<strong>Anticipated Needs:</strong> Basemap Improvement
<br>
<strong>Request(s):</strong> Support to map the area<br>
<strong>Need for Activation:</strong> Likely<br>
<strong>Active Orgs:</strong> Asia Pacific Open Mapping Hub<br>
<strong>Lead Orgs:</strong>Asia Pacific Open Mapping Hub<br>


<strong>Context:</strong>"- 116 districts affected, including 66 districts officially declared ‘calamity hit’.

- At least 937 people killed and 1,343 people injured since 14 June.

- Rainfall nationwide is 2.87 times higher than the national 30-year average, with some provinces receiving more than five times as much rainfall as their 30-year average.

- The Government of Pakistan has earmarked PKR 35 billion (ca. US$173 million) to aid flood-affected people under the Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP), among other assistance.

- Humanitarian partners are providing aid for flood-affected people even as weather and ground conditions inhibit access.

- The humanitarian situation is expected to worsen as communities and infrastructure are increasingly unable to cope with ongoing heavy rainfall"
<br>Source: Pakistan: 2022 Monsoon Floods - Situation Report No. 03: As of 26 August 2022, UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs<be>  

Here is the list of projects to map the affected area:

<a href="https://tasks.hotosm.org/projects/13404">13404, 
[DISASTER RESPONSE] - PAKISTAN FLOOD 2022, NASIRABAD DISTRICT, BALOCHISTAN
</a>


