---
title: Test TUR SYR EQ
date: 2023-03-08 19:56:00 Z
published: false
Project Summary Text: 'After any disaster, data is critical for life-saving and sustaining
  activities and recovery programs. Since 2010 and the devastating earthquake in Haiti,
  the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team (HOT), with the wider OpenStreetMap (OSM) community,
  has been working to provide spatial data to inform disaster response and recovery
  via OSM. During the Syria-Turkey earthquake in February 2023, OSM is again proving
  to be a valuable resource in search and rescue efforts, contextualizing and accessing
  damage assessments, and planning relief and recovery efforts. '
Feature Image: https://eos.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/Main.jpg
Project Logo Image: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/w/images/thumb/4/46/Yer_cizenler_logo.png/240px-Yer_cizenler_logo.png
Is Community-Led: true
Country:
- Turkey
Impact Area:
- Disasters & Climate Resilience
Person:
- Can Unen
- Pete Masters
Duration:
  Start Date: 2023-02-07 20:23:00 Z
tm_campaigns:
- Turkey and Syria Earthquake Response February 2023
---

Much of this data is the result of a huge solidarity effort from thousands of OpenStreetMap contributors in both the affected countries and around the world. In a humanitarian response such as this, it is hard for a member of the public to contribute beyond making a financial donation, but data generated by mappers is already in the hands of responders and having an impact on the ground. 

Road Networks
Earthquakes are extremely challenging for navigation. Internet and cellular networks go down or overload and damage means road data from before the quake are suddenly inaccurate. For Dr. Çevik in the field, Organic Maps and the OSM data that feeds it was essential for him and his colleagues to get to the people that needed medical attention in the Hattay region. (quote here?)

IMAGE 

Critical infrastructure
Beyond road networks, information on OSM about critical infrastructure, such as hospitals, pharmacies, food depots, transportation nodes, and settlements, is playing an important role, providing organizations like the World Food Programme key insights into field conditions, pre and post-earthquake, for logistics planning. Without this, planning the movement of goods, resources, and personnel efficiently in the aftermath of an earthquake of this magnitude would be much more challenging. 

IMAGE

Base maps

OSM enables the rapid creation of maps in areas that did not have pre-existing map data. In the aftermath of this earthquake, the capacity for real time updates and open access meant that AKUT (what is AKUT?) and AFAD (what is AFAD) were able to use OSM data in their maps to coordinate and ensure that resources were used efficiently. In a scenario such as this, knowledge of the built environment enables better decisions to be taken to access people in need and to understand people’s requirements and what infrastructure exists locally. 

IMAGE 

Imagery and Building damage 

Promptly after the earthquake hit, organizations like IFRC requested building-level vector data for post-disaster damage assessments from Yer Cizenler, the coordinator of the response. Using a combination of government data, a Copernicus damage analysis (link), and pre-disaster OSM building footprints (now, more than 1.6 million mapped through the HOT tasking manager), IFRC performed a geospatial analysis to help them plan their aid in relief and recovery efforts by pinpointing the exact location of each destroyed building. 

(Insert map)

With the idea of increasing the availability of damaged data and properly reflecting the current state of the map in OSM, Yer C also used the Copernicus damage analysis to update the OSM building through a MapRoulette campaign (link). The validation process involved High Res imagery from drones and satellites, which helped ensure the quality of the digitization. The resulting dataset that identifies destroyed buildings is available to HDX and has been downloaded over 500+ times (link). 

The data needs will evolve
In addition to the above, and as the phases of the response shift, OSM data will also be used for long-term recovery efforts, such as rebuilding infrastructure and housing and improving disaster preparedness. The availability of detailed, up-to-date map data is an important resource in all stages of the disaster recovery process.

It is important to remember that behind each data point, there is a tremendous human effort from volunteers and organizations. Every single object that has been mapped so far, has had human eyes creating, modifying, or validating it. The effort continues and, if you are a mapper who wants to get involved, you can do so here.
