---
title: 'OSM Tasking Manager 3 Project Update #1'
date: 2017-03-06 16:25:29 Z
permalink: updates/2017-03-06_osm_tasking_manager_3_project_update_#1
Person: Blake Girardot
Working Group: []
Project:
- OSM Tasking Manager 3.0 Development
created: 1488817529
---

<p>Development on the next major version of HOT's OSM Tasking Manager software is going strong. A lot has happened so let us catch up!</p><p>Usage of HOT's OSM mapping coordination tool, our beloved Tasking Manager, has really skyrocketed over the past two and a half years. More volunteer mappers are working on more projects for more organizations in more places than ever before. New uses come up almost every week, and the load on the servers and software continues to climb. The impact the Tasking Manager has had on mapping around the world is hard to overstate and impossible to fully quantify. USAID's GeoCenter and AusAID's Disaster Management Innovation team, among others, understand that value and they are both making this next iteration of the software possible (DMInnovation made Tasking Manager 2 possible). The Tasking Manager 3 project is intended to build on the functionality of the existing Tasking Manager to better meet the needs of users, both mappers and mapping project managers.</p><p>At the end of 2016, we synthesized the collective wisdom of hundreds of users over the past two and a half years to outline the core areas for improvement and put forth a Tech Challenge to find a team to actually write the code. We received a really great set of proposals and the decision process was next to impossible. In January we selected the team at <a href="http://www.thinkwhere.com/" target="_blank">thinkWhere in Stirling UK</a> to do the development. The great folks at thinkWhere, Linda Alblas, Iain Hunter, Ian Feeney and David Frankland have been going full steam ahead ever since!</p><p>When we first began the project we were not sure if it made more sense to redevelop the software from scratch or build on the existing code to extend its functionality. In the end, after a great deal of discussion, we came to the conclusion that given the requirements for the next version of the software and future development possibilities, it would be best to re-implement the software to take advantage of advances and innovations in web development frameworks and methodologies over the past few years.&nbsp;</p><p>During this same time frame, Pierre Giraud, the main developer of our existing Tasking Manager 2 software, joined in our efforts to rapidly implement a few of the most talked about features for the next generation of the software in the existing Tasking Manager 2 software and make some general improvements to the code base. This gives us the unique opportunity to get feedback and input right away on features that will be in the Tasking Manager 3 software in a real world situation, with real world data in a familiar user interface. As you may have seen on Twitter, a dedicated group of validators and mappers in the London Missing Maps group, got a first look and gave those features a good, thorough and extremely thoughtful review last week. We expect those features to be rolled out to the main, live Tasking Manager site in the next few weeks. And with that release, we will bring to a close formal development on what feels like a trusted old friend, the Tasking Manager 2, which has brought HOT and Missing Maps so far over these past years.</p><p>But onward!</p><p>Part of the initial phase of the development process was to generate wireframe mock-ups of screens for the Tasking Manager 3 (TM3). These are tools software designers use to foster discussion about functionality and solicit feedback on how features might be implemented. You can <a href="https://github.com/hotosm/tasking-manager/wiki/Initial-TM3-Wireframes" target="_blank">see the full initial set of mock-ups in the software repository for the TM3</a>. You can also <a href="http://tasking-manager-staging.eu-west-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/" target="_blank">visit the development staging site</a>, but be this early in the development, there is not a great deal to see yet.</p><p>With mockups in hand, the team from thinkWhere traveled to HOT's office Washington DC where on February 1st, we had a full day meeting to review the mockups with some of the largest users of the Tasking Manager. There were folks from Missing Maps, YouthMappers, TeachOSM, GeoCenter, the US State Department's Humanitarian Information Unit, Mapbox, HOT Project Managers, American Red Cross and Ethan Nelson, the lead community development volunteer. It was a long, but very productive day.</p><p>The thinkWhere team has been hard at work and making incredible progress. You can <a href="https://github.com/hotosm/tasking-manager/wiki/Initial-TM3-Wireframes" target="_blank">review and download their daily code check-ins via HOT's public GitHub repository</a>. &nbsp;</p><p>One note related to the Tasking Manager 2 repository's issue backlog: We will start closing issues with a comment similar to "This will be addressed in TM3". We expect that TM3 will directly or indirectly impact a lot of the issues on Tasking Manager 2, in fact, the issues on the Tasking Manager 2 were one of the primary sources for the user stories and high level feature specifications for the TM3.</p><p>Everyone is invited to be a part of the process. Comments, questions and issues are needed and encouraged on that repository's Issues tab. There are many ways to participate, there is a way for you too!</p><p><a href="https://hotosm-slack.herokuapp.com/" target="_blank">HOT's Slack</a></p><p><a href="https://github.com/hotosm/tasking-manager/issues" target="_blank">HOT's GitHub TM3 Issues</a></p><p><a href="https://webchat.oftc.net/" target="_blank">IRC channel: #HOT</a></p><p><a href="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=hotosm.org_848e89aaiab04ag94d23rqn558@group.calendar.google.com" target="_blank">Working Group Meetings</a></p><p>Email: blake.girardot@hotosm.org</p><p>Skype jblakegirardot if you already use it (mention it is TM3 related :)</p>
